---
layout: post
title: Onto-
date: 2022-12-15 13:09:20 +0300
tags: ontology ssw
giscus_comments: true
---

Originally posted as part of the [CMPE58H](https://cmpe.boun.edu.tr/courses/cmpe58h) course at `https://furkanakkurt5204.gitlab.io/personal/ontology/2022/12/15/onto`.

---

Ontology is the study of the essence of things.
Onto- is etymologically related to _essence_ (_essere_: to be in Italian).
_Onto_ and _logy_ together is the discourse of existence.
Ontology in the field of computer science is, as expected, very much related to its philosophical usage.

## Tower of Babel

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="/assets/img/tower-babel.jpg" title="The Tower of Babel by Pieter Bruegel the Elder (1563)" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    The Tower of Babel by Pieter Bruegel the Elder (1563) <sup><a href="#references">1</a></sup>
</div>

[The _tower of babel_ narrative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_of_Babel) tries to explain why humans have languages so diverse.
In the narrative, a human race with a single language gets scattered around the world and their language confused.
Ontologies are attempts at reducing this diversification and unifying representations so that people unify over the understanding of a thing as much as possible.
Although many philosophers are fond of _ontology_, it's sad that much of the disagreements between them appear to come from understanding different things from the same phrases.
People are very capable of misunderstandings.

In the computer science world, various groups establish their own terminology in their work.
When outputs of these groups want to be merged, consequently, much work has to be done.<sup>[2](#references)</sup>

## References

1. [Pieter Brueghel the Elder, Public domain, via Wikimedia Commons](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/50/Pieter_Bruegel_the_Elder_-_The_Tower_of_Babel_%28Vienna%29_-_Google_Art_Project.jpg)
2. [Ontology: Philosophical and Computational](http://ontology.buffalo.edu/smith/articles/ontologies.htm)
