---
layout: post
title: Yasiin Bey in Istanbul
date: 2023-03-21
tags: rap
giscus_comments: true
---

Suadiye, Istanbul, Turkey

I have learned Yasiin Bey (aka Mos Def) was in Istanbul for an event helping raise funds for the earthquake relief efforts on Instagram at noon. I wasn't supposed to check Instagram but still, I did. As soon as my class ended at 5 PM, I have left for Suadiye. I was hopeful I could see him, one of the greatest. It was close so I went there rather quickly. I have seen him with my best friend at the entrance of a clothing store where the event would take place. He was trying on some glasses. He was just the coolest. A picture below, he in red, me behind:

<div class="row justify-content-center">
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="/assets/img/mos-me.jpg" title="mos-me" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Here, they're going to a restaurant to eat (expensive).
</div>

I was planning to talk to him but I didn't. I should have rapped at him, his lyrics. I should have said:

> I don't hate players, I don't love the game  
> I'm the shot clock, way above the game  
> To be point blank with you, motherfuck the game!  
> I got all this work on me, I ain't come for play

[lyrics source](https://genius.com/Yasiin-bey-sunshine-lyrics)

He saw me watching him, that's something. He smiled at my friend, that's another something! :tada:

## Some lyrics from him

### New World Water

> Fools done upset the Old Man River  
> Made him carry slave ships and fed him dead n**s  
> Now his belly full and he about to flood somethin'

> Fuck a bank; I need a twenty-year water tank

> Used to have minerals and zinc in it  
> Now they say it got lead and stink in it

> Americans wastin' it on some leisure shit  
> Another nation be desperately seekin' it

> Said it's all about gettin' that cash

> Cash rules everything around me [CREAM]

[lyrics source](https://genius.com/Yasiin-bey-new-world-water-lyrics)

What can you say about this track? It's insane, ahead of the time ⏳

### Mathematics

> My ink so hot, it burn through the journal

> Streets too loud to ever hear freedom ring

> It's a numbers game, but shit don't add up somehow

> But only 15% of profits ever see my pockets  
> Like $69 billion in the last 20 years  
> Spent on national defense, but folks still live in fear

> A 5 minute sentence hearing and you no longer free

> Young bloods can't spell, but they could rock you at PlayStation

> You wanna know how to rhyme? You better learn how to add  
> It's mathematics  
> ***"The Mighty Mos Def"***

> Yo, it's 6 million ways to die from the 7 deadly thrills

> When the average minimum wage is $5.15  
> You best believe you gotta find a new grind to get C.R.E.A.M

> And end up in the global jail economy

> Budget cutbacks, but increased police presence

> This is bidness; no faces, just lines and statistics

> The system break man, child and women into figures  
> 2 columns for "Who is" and "Who ain't" n\*\*s  
> Numbers is hard and real and they never have feelings  
> But you push too hard, even numbers got limits  
> Why did one straw break the camel's back?  
> Here's the secret — the million other straws underneath it  
> It's all mathematics  
> ***"The Mighty Mos Def"***

[lyrics source](https://genius.com/Yasiin-bey-mathematics-lyrics)

What can you say about this man? He's a poet.

His lyrics go on and on, and these are only from his debut album.

Mighty Yasiin Bey! :heart:
